Our draw loop is continually running over and
over again. This can be very helpful when we
try to create different variations, when we try to
create animations, but sometimes especially when
you create something very complex, it can also
be counterproductive. I've created a very simple
example here that generates a grid of circles
where the size of the circles is generated by a
random function. And now we can see that the
loop is continuously running the draw loop
but maybe we just want one iteration of this and
then stop it. To do this, there is a very simple
function it's called noLoop() and as soon as we
call this command the draw loop stops and does
not continue. As soon as we delete it or call the
loop() function it would start again. This is very
helpful when we draw something complex or we just
want one iteration. There's an additional function
that helps us with this that can slow down the
draw function and this is the frameRate function.
Inside the frameRate function we can define how
often per second the draw loop should be called.
Right now it's only called once per second and we
can now also increase this maybe say 100 times per
second. But as you see this now, you might notice
it doesn't look much faster than it did before and
this is simply a performance reason. You cannot
increase the frame rate to a really really high
number, because your computer still needs to
draw all the elements that you define in your
draw function, so the actual maximum speed, the
maximum frame rate of your sketch strongly depends
on your computer on the performance of your
computer as well as the complexity of your sketch